so much. Hi everybody. We're here in Cincinnati, Ohio, and I will have a couple of other people
from Cincinnati that are going to say a few words as well. But I'd kind of like to start this by
showing you all a very short video of our dear friend Carolyn so that you can get an idea of
who she is and how she... just who she is. And this was taken at her 80th birthday party
about four years ago. And during that time, you know, everybody was so happy and so jolly.
But when she had a moment with the microphone, this is what she said to us.
So can someone roll that for us, please?
So
my hope is and I hope everybody will join me in this hope even though you're not 80.
You're going to be.
And from now on, I will always have Sri Manaji's feet here and my attention on there.
And that I and we all will remember every time we go into a store or in any place public,
remember the vibrations that we're spreading and not take it for granted and not forget about it.
And my hope is also that we'll find some tremendously creative ways to spread Sahaja Yoga.
In Cincinnati, we haven't completed this. In fact, we barely started.
So that's my hope that everything will get moving. After all, I may only have 20 or 30 more years.
So let's go.
So as you can see, that was our beautiful Carolyn and how she was always thinking of Sahaj.
I wanted to share with you all quite a few things about her life.
So if you'll bear with me, I am going to read this. I kind of just
decided that would be the best way. So we have two other speakers from Cincinnati,
but I'll just start with this part of it. I first met Carolyn Vance in 1992 when she came with
Sri Mataji to Cincinnati, and she traveled many times in the US with Sri Mataji. She was
a constant companion for her. I was still just a few years new to Sahaj at that time and remembered
being so impressed with this lovely, dignified lady traveling with mother. As a visit progressed,
I found out we also shared a background in actively working for civil rights and for equal
rights for women. I was employed in TV and radio at the time, and it was wonderful to find another
yogini who was also interested in politics and civil rights. But what I really learned from
Carolyn was how to listen to mother. Beyond her spiritual teachings, Sri Mataji often shared with
us her ideas of what equality and harmony are and how Sahaja Yoga championed true equal rights.
Carolyn incorporated many of those ideas in her book, It Takes a Mother. I feel privileged to
have read it and to have done a first pass at preliminary editing of it. She then shifted to
Richard and Felicity Paiment, who polished it and helped get it published. In It Takes a Mother,
Carolyn writes a fictional but somewhat autobiographical story of a woman's fight for
equality in Washington, DC's early TV. Equal rights broadcasting legislation was passed
and her work among American Indians. It culminates in self-realization. So this book, It Takes a
Mother, is available on Amazon, and we intended to have her review it here. Alpina and I and others
had talked about having her review it here on this site, but unfortunately our time with her
ran out too quickly. But I urge you to go to Amazon and get It Takes a Mother. It will show
you more than we can say in our few minutes here. Over the years as I got to know her better,
I realized how well respected Carolyn was and how many yogis, old and young alike, turned to her
for advice. When you ask Carolyn about some problem, she was able to help you look at it
from a self-realized vantage point. Whether it was an issue at the Kanahari School where she worked
tirelessly or whether it was a collective problem, she did not shirk from difficulties. Sometime in
early 2009, Carolyn took vibrations and decided to move to Cincinnati. And I think that date is right.
A lot of us have debated that, but we're not really sure, but we think it was around 2009.
She was an immediate asset to our collective as she's been to the other US collective she'd lived
with or started herself. After Sri Mataji passed away in 2011, Carolyn was elected as President
of the US Council. During a very difficult and tumultuous time, she held the US yogis together.
We were grieving and many conflicting ideas for the future emerged, but Carolyn's faith in mother
was steadfast and we slowly as a country regained our equilibrium. Here in Cincinnati, we conducted
local public programs and Carolyn even brought guests across the Ohio River to my Covington,
Kentucky programs. Vibrations always increased when she joined us. In her leisure time, Carolyn
was a lot of fun to be with. We both loved music and enjoyed many concerts together from jazz on
the outdoor salon of an African American orphanage to the symphony at our renowned music hall
and to several choral performances featuring Sahaja yoginis. Carolyn loved many kinds of music
and attending events with her made the experience ever more interesting. We once drove deep into
Appalachia together to give realization at a corporate Kentucky high school as part of the
Sahaja yoga health core project. In that event, after traveling for more than three hours,
Carolyn was immediately on point and helped quickly engage high school students into
trying meditation. With seemingly effortless remarks, she helped us interest those Appalachian
high school kids in meditating. Afterwards, their faces were beaming and they sent us lovely thank
you notes. When she had the collective meeting at her house, we all loved how beautifully she
led the meeting and how lovingly she fed us delicious snacks and the young people were
treated to Sahaja coloring books and games and anti-Carolyn study. They loved being around her.
Carolyn was always ready to assist with important projects. She was instrumental in helping us
conduct a Love America tour where teams of visiting European youth helped us blitz many
businesses, schools, and mental health centers with the experience of Sahaja yoga. Afterwards,
we continued that work at the Lender Center for Mental Health and at a Senior Citizen Retirement
Center. But sometime during the COVID pandemic when we all separated to our homes and online
Zoom meetings, Carolyn's health started becoming troublesome. Our dear Yogini Shalini and Ram,
as well as many others, took great care of Carolyn. But by early this year, it was obvious
that the end was really near. In late April, as many of the yogis as possible met and meditated
together and then trooped across town to her hotel room. Even then, Carolyn remembered everyone by
name, went around the room saying lovely things to each of us before receiving a colorful
photo showing our Cincinnati fireworks sparkling over the riverfront. It was signed on the back
by all the yogis and she thanked us profusely. She said she would have it placed with her in her
coffin as it was to be a green burial. As usual, she made an ordinary event take on a dignity
and specialness that often happened effortlessly around Carolyn. At the urging of her children and
she spent the last couple weeks of her life with them at her older sister's house on the east
coast. She graciously shared those final days watching movies and receiving love from her kids,
grandkids, and birth family too. We had all said our goodbyes but most appropriately when we were
just coming up from Sasara or Pooja on Mother's Day, Sunday, May 8th, we received the word of her
passing. I think I speak for all the Cincinnati Yogis when I say that we were honored to know
Carolyn. She was a special friend to each of us as well. Her knowledge of Sahaja Yoga was deep
and comforting and we all loved her dearly. We're also privileged today to have Svetlana
Clete here with us and she has a few things she'd like to say about Srimadaji and then we have
Hilary Thomas who wants to say a few things.
Hello again, my name is Svetlana Clete. I got the realization in 1989
in Leningrad, Saint Petersburg, when Srimadaji just started Sahaja Yoga
and after Indian Yogis left, I was one of the first who led public programs there.
I met Carolyn in 93 in Moscow on my wedding because my husband and I and Jack Clete
and her Ukrainian husband were married on the same day, 93 November 15th.
I just noticed how beautiful she was inside and outside, always dressed well, always have nice
had nice jewelry. As a matter of fact, paying respect to her, I'm wearing her jewelry today
and because I kind of feel it's like all vibrations because she was a great Yogini
and when I was sick with cancer, I am well now. A few years back, I could not eat or drink
through my mouth because of radiation damage and had nourishment only through intervene.
Carolyn gave me a beautiful dress because she said, I want you to look beautiful
and it's so sensitive from her, so sincere, her pure love like knowing that I am deprived from
collectively enjoying food with Yogis but she wanted me to be part of the collective and looking
beautiful and we went to the symphony together. When there was Realize America in Cincinnati,
she took a great part in that and she was like super Lakshmi. She wore real plates and real
silverware for the collective to enjoy together meals when they were coming and for foreign
Yogis who came for that event to be together and collectively happy. And again, I still have that
set and when Yogis come for the pooches or for some events in my house, I offer them
and I feel that Carolyn is still with us and like ending my small memory,
I can tell you, I started reading her book, it takes the mother after she just passed
and I felt in every page her real presence and it brought Carolyn to my life again.
Jai Shimataji.
Jai Shimataji, thank you so much.
Wonderful. I think we have Hillary Thomas who's written something that she wanted to
share with us. Hillary? Great.
Yes. Hello everybody. Thank you so much for giving us the chance to remember Dear Carolyn.
I had to write things down because I knew I wouldn't remember it and I might get a bit
emotional. When Carolyn moved to Cincinnati, I got to know her although I had seen her
at events since the early 1980s. Her early years in Cincinnati was spent six months here
and the rest of the time helping with the children's school at Kanujahari. I was always
amazed that she could drive by herself the 10 and a half hours to Kanujahari in her trusty
old blue Chevy. At poojas, Carolyn always sat on the ground, legs crossed and with a straight back.
Most of us of the same age had already taken to chairs. Carolyn was always the first to volunteer
for any Sahaja Yoga task. She would drive so far to meetings and would be the first to get up and
work on new people. She was a completely dedicated Sahaja Yogi. When we would go away, she would take
care of our house. She came regularly to check on it and water the plants. I always felt completely
confident knowing that she would be there. She had those qualities of reliability and
diligence which came from her love. When she became sick, we became her wheels with others
when she was diagnosed with cancer. We were there with her when the doctor first told her.
She didn't let herself be down and depressed about the cancer but immediately took
a very optimistic approach. She went through two years of treatment, discomfort and pain.
She never complained and said everything was for her spiritual betterment. I always remember that
and say that many times in my life since she said that. The last time I saw her was in the hospital
before her family took her to Maryland. She was joking with her mother and her family. She was
joking and being positive as always. This was just one week before she passed. When the doctor came
to discharge her, he said that it had been a privilege to take care of her. To me, it was also
a privilege and a blessing to have known Carolyn. We love and miss you, Carolyn. Jai Shumataji.
Oh, wonderful, Dilleri. I'm sure everyone is very happy to hear from you and to see you too,
all your friends in Europe. So now I think if we can, we will move to Teresa Cody.
She is at the Kannadjahari School and worked so much right next to Shumataji
and with our dear Carolyn. So please, do we have Teresa?
Yes, she's here. Yes. Jai Shumataji, everyone. Thank you for inviting me. I was doing the same
thing yesterday. I was trying to remember when Auntie Carolyn started here and I believe it was
in 2008 because it was before she moved to Cincinnati. One thing that I really remember
about her, she was 70 when she started coming here to help. She had the energy of 10 people.
Young people would be sitting down and seeing her work and we'd all look at each other,
oh, we better get up. She's working so hard. We can't say we're tired.
And she used to always say here that I'd say, oh, this is hard work. She goes, no, it's not.
It's not hard work. It's not hard work at all. And we were, Anita's here, who's originally from
Cincinnati too one time. And we were talking about how she was a warrior and that truly was what
Auntie Carolyn was. There was no, no, it could be done. And one of the things that she helped us
with the government is we were working on a religious visa and what they had wrote in there,
she goes, they can't write that. That's racist. We have to fight this. So she got on our hat and
we worked with our lawyer. It went down to Homeland Security and then they kept not doing
their job. So she called our local Congress person and worked with them to finally get us
this religious visa so that we could employ people from afar. But one thing she did with always,
and we were talking about this last night, is there was always love. There was never any doubt
in her mind of things that couldn't get done. And just how young, I think all the children made her
here too, is like, she played with them so much. And she would always, I remember one time they,
we have a tractor and they would go on a hayride and the trailer fell off and Uncle Russ couldn't
get it back connected. And the grass was above their head. And she goes, come on, we can walk
through this. And that's what she really likes teaching the children is don't give up. You can
persevere through anything. And we had this big steep hill that we climb up by a Creek and
she'd yell at the aunties, oh no, don't help them. Don't help them. They can do it. They can do it.
Let them try. Let them try. If they can't, we'll assist, but let them try. So always, that's my
memory of never giving up. There's always an answer. There was no stopping. And she
worked here at the school for eight or nine years. So she was like in her late seventies when she
finally said, I don't think I can do it anymore. And it's like auntie you've done so much,
but she missed it every day that I would talk to her. She'll, I wish I was there. I wish I was
there. She was such a light and a guiding force that I enjoyed so much. I think she really,
when I became in this position, I had never managed people. I've never lived in an ashram.
So with her guidance and all her years of knowledge from Shramadaji, from just being a
manager at a bank, all these things helped me grow so much. I'm so indebted to her. She was
definitely, I feel somebody that we've been together in a past life. Just there was so much
joy that she always brought to the school. She's missed. I mean, I'm trying not to cry because she's
a very great soul. Oh, thank you so much. It's really lovely. And, and you know, it's always
been amazing to me how children loved Carolyn so much. I'm sure you saw that with her there.
It just was amazing. Like she was always online with all of us, but when it was children,
it was like a different matter. They were just like her little own children. Every child she
met was like her own. And it was, it was really amazing to watch that. Thank you.
So I think we have Sylvia, don't we, out in on the West coast. I think she wants to say a few words.
We still have Sylvia Dooling.
Oh, hi. Sorry. Hi. Hi Betty and everyone. Thank you so much for inviting me.
I'm sorry. I'm not. There's a little delay. I think in the zoom, I'm in the car
driving between Florida and Virginia.
But we can hear you.
Oh, great. Okay. So that's why I won't put my video because I think it will be just distracting.
I'm sorry that I haven't.
Carolyn, I mean, it just flows from the heart I think. So I'll just start with my realization
in a library in Norfolk, Virginia, under the dear facilitation of Carolyn.
And I remember that day, of course, so well. And I remember the way Carolyn produced everything
made so much sense that I just thought, I can't wait to talk to this lady after the program,
after the program, I nearly chased her and her husband, Belodia out of the library. I mean,
I just wouldn't let them go. And finally, Carolyn said, just turn to me, you know how she was just
full on about everything and full of love. And she just turned on me and turned to me and said,
I would love to talk to you. Please give me your phone number. But my family's waiting at home.
It's my birthday and they want to celebrate. It was almost like, oh my goodness, Carolyn is more
interested in talking about yoga than letting her family celebrate her birthday. So that was
my first introduction to Carolyn. But she was so wonderful. I almost followed up to her house.
So then, for the next,
especially, I felt like Carolyn's little child, honest to God. I was 48 years old and I had just
had my rebirth. And this was my new mother, sister, everything was, our relationship was
everything to me. We talked about three times a week. And when we weren't talking, I was
remembering the smallest and most beautiful little things that she did.
I certainly remember after about a year, she decided about a year after I'd been in
the Haji, about a year and a half, we would have dinner at her house. It was always beautiful,
with lovely china, which has been mentioned here and was done like a party, even though it was just
Carolyn, her husband and myself. And we would listen to a talk and we would meditate.
And in one talk, she reminded me that, you know, spread satchi yoga in the churches,
talk to the ministers. So she decided that we would write to ministers. So we got out the
phone book. This is 2001, 2002. And we selected three churches and one responded and it was a
unity church in Virginia Beach, Virginia. We went there and Carolyn gave this minister,
who was a lady, self-realization. And we had a program there for a year. Nobody came,
but Carolyn decided, I mean, there were just like one or two people,
one or two people, one or two people every night. I mean, once a week, but Carolyn decided that
that would be a great learning experience for me. So after just being in the Haji,
really about a year and a half, she had me giving programs and that was my real knowledge base.
That's where I got my foundation because you never know how to know anything until you teach it.
And I had to immerse myself and talk about a subject that was still new to me, but
under Carolyn's tutelage and guidance and beaming, oh, that was a beautiful program.
She would always tell me that even though I was falling on my face and
blushing the whole time or whatever it was. So then she decided after, and I don't know why,
but with Anna Mantini, perhaps it was Anna's great passion, she and Anna decided that we would go
to the reservation at Pine Ridge in Pine Ridge, South Dakota, which is the Lakota reservation
that Anna had contacted through an amazing series of events, which I hope Anna will tell us all one
day. And I had never done anything like this before. I had never just had thought that I would
take off from work and go to an Indian reservation and give self-realization,
but it just didn't matter. If we were doing mother's work, everything would be fine. And
we really didn't have space in our brain to worry about anything when Carolyn was involved because
her enthusiasm, absolute devotion, absolute trust that if we were doing mother's work,
everything would work out. Just overtook everything else. And you kind of were just
thoughtless because you just didn't want to miss any of this amazing stuff sort of going on between,
in a way, between of course us individually and humanity, but sort of that phase that you could
see working through Carolyn and humanity. So we went there and we gave realization and people
came from Colorado. Yogi's came, Alia Einstein and her new husband and Anna came and people came
from Canada, Regina and Christina. So it became so collective and what an amazing thing to have
happened when you're only in Sahaja Yoga for four years at that point.
Well, I think we may have lost them. I know she's traveling.
But they came and brought gifts to Sumanji and that was all Carolyn and Anna together,
their amazing energy. So there are almost too many memories to recount, but for everyone
has said so much here and it's just palpably true that any time you were in the presence of Carolyn,
you just felt like Sahaja Yoga was, you maybe thought that Sahaja Yoga was the answer,
but when you were with Carolyn, there was no doubt in your mind. This is the way we're going to save
the world. So I hope I haven't run over time. I don't remember what my time allotment was,
but I'll end there and just say thank you so much for the beautiful memories and beautiful vibrations
today. Thank you so much for sharing with us. We are at about 3.30. I don't know if